---
layout: post
title:  "SParser and SParserCalc"
subtitle: ""
date:   2017-10-4 12:32:24
categories: iphone
permalink: "SParser"
device: "imac"
app_preview: "/images/SParser/preview.png"
name: "SParser and SParserCalc"
tagline: ""
app_icon: ""
---

<a href="https://github.com/amnykon/SParser">SParser</a> generates a swift parser from a .sparser file. The .sparser contains the rule that describes the format in the file to parse. The format is based on <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backus–Naur_form">Blocus-Nor-Form</a>.

<a href="https://github.com/amnykon/SParserCalc">SParserCalc</a> is a command line calculator that uses SParser and is designed to be an example of how to  use SParser.

Rules are used to describe the format of a .sparser file. A rule describes a component in the file that can be read. In <a href="https://github.com/amnykon/SParserCalc/blob/master/Source/SParserCalc/SParserCalc.sparser">SParserCalc.sparser</a>, some of the rules are: expression, term, factor, and number.

Each rule has a type and at least one pattern. Using the expression rule from SParserCalc:

<pre><code>expression
  type
    Double
  ::= term
    return term
</code></pre>

The type is the Swift data type that is returned when the rule is read. In this case, the return type is Double.

The pattern is a block that starts with "::=". After the "::=" is a list of other rules to read for this rule. In this case it just reads the term rule. The following line is Swift code that converts the data matched in the pattern to the type of the rule. The expression rule returns the term without modifing it.

There can be multiple patterns in a rule. SParserCalc's term has 3 patterns.
<pre><code>term
  type
    Double
  ::= term "+" factor
    return term + factor
  ::= term "-" factor
    return term - factor
  ::= factor
    return factor
</code></pre>
Pattern 1 matches a term rule, a "+" string, followed by a factor rule and returns their sum. This pattern is recursive as the first rule in the pattern is itself.
Pattern 2 is the same as pattern 1, except that it subtracts the factor from the term.
Pattern 3 simply returns the factor.

Once these rules are created, SParser can convert these .sparser files to .swift files. Each rule is turned into a function that will read the contents of the file.

